Here are links of interest to clustering/assembly:

  http://www.plantgdb.org/AtGDB/prj/ZSB03PP/


Notes on our meeting of 1/8/04 (debbie, thomas,steve)

1. combine into one exon if gap < threshold

2. will develop quality metrics, such as nice-intron/intron ratio (nice intron
   is one with a splice site and/or from a multi-intron est)

3. trim exon boundaries based on nice splices

4. splice signals used for:
    - edge cleanup
    - quality metric

5. our gene collator algorithm stays the same

6. clone id is not used to determine transcript structure 

7. pairwise alignment to genome is better than cap4

8. store exon graph in db?  yes... for visualizations

9. SNP predictions... later

10. must develop BLAT alignment criteria

11. ESTs can belong to more than one DT and DG

12. what should we do w/ non-aligning ESTs?

13. we will probably redo each build from scratch

14. we may need a research database instance.

15. our approach assumes a quality, and mostly complete reference genome.  not 
    good for, eg, rat.  in that case, we would simply use the genome as a 
    clustering pre-process and continue with the old method.

16. algorithm to map genome based DTs to similarity based DTs, to preserve 
    stable IDs.  This is non-trivial.  Its a m-m relationship.  Probably
    best to move on to new ids, and provide a mapping file.

17. to map new build of DTs to previous build DTs (both based on genome), we
    remember which DT each input seq came from.  Do a majority and genome 
    location based mapping.

18. i guess we still use the "assembly" tables.  but, the assembly is now
    based on pairwise alignment to the genome.

19. use exon graph technique to form transcripts.  to make transcripts, chose
    the longest unique paths through the graph.  (in order to capture 
    "nice" introns, our graph needs super-edges, which connect multiple exons
    when we have a multi-exon EST.


GOALS

1. improve genome integration:  get rid of sDG/gDG split

2. improve EST assignment to transcripts

3. improve transcript model (longer, more realistic)

4. improve gene model (show complete splice forms)

5. improve transcript sequence

7. motivate our users/funders?



